Dear viewers, welcome to another edition of the show without an address, the Hercegovna Info portal.
Today we are again at the address of Chitluk, more precisely Padalovina.
Our guest today, or rather the host, began his story right here,
under this basket, across the basketball club Brotnjo, then Zagreb's Cibone, Megalex,
and then to the biggest world scene of Los Angeles, the Lakers and the Clippers.
Our guest today, or rather the host, the best Croatian basketball player, Ivica Zubac.
Ivica, welcome to our home, or rather, welcome to your home.
Thank you for taking the time for us, especially on a day like this.
How is the rest in Hercegovina?
Thank you for having me. It's always great here.
It's always fun, it's always good to come and visit friends and family.
I've spent some time where I grew up, where I'm from, and I'm always happy to come back.
Thank you for having us on a day like this, because on a day like this,
your great friend, our basketball player Luka Juricic, is getting married.
Are the preparations for the last day harder than the whole season in the Clippers?
No, it's not like that at all. We've been preparing for the whole week,
partying, hanging out, so it's not that hard for me.
But today is going to be hot.
A few days ago, I was talking to our mutual friend, Ivo Juricic,
and I told him that I often pass by your street,
and he always tells me stories.
What are your emotions when you come home from the U.S.
and every time you look at this in front of your house?
Well, I think this basket is full of memories.
We grew up on this street, on this basketball court,
we played every day, we learned the moves,
we watched NBA videos, we tried to copy what was on this court,
if it's possible to call it a basketball court,
it's more of a street than a basketball court.
I'm a bit sad that no one plays on this court,
that you can't hear the ball or anything,
but we really made the most of it.
Your neighbor, who lives a bit further from your house,
always says that when she goes to work,
Ivica would be on the court all day.
Did you have a lot of friends there?
We were there a lot, we had a lot of kids in the village,
we all grew up together for many years,
we spent our days there, we all loved basketball,
we grew up really well.
Also, your brother was a great talent,
but did you have a bigger love for basketball?
I think it's possible, both of my younger brothers were talented,
unfortunately, it didn't make a career out of basketball,
but I think we had a lot of talent in our family,
but you have to put a lot of things together to succeed.
Did you ever dream that you could go from this court
to the biggest world scene?
We always dreamed, we all dreamed,
but it had to be a bit realistic,
I never expected to get to where I am now,
there were always dreams and wishes,
but I was always a bit realistic,
my goal was to play for the seniors of Brotnjak,
and as I walked step by step,
that goal was getting higher and higher,
and now I am where I am.
Did you watch our Zoran Planinča,
who is also here,
was he a role model for you?
I think that Zoka was the reason
why a lot of us started playing basketball here.
He was always drafted,
we didn't know anything about basketball,
and we wanted to copy what he did,
and he was always there,
every summer when he had time,
he played basketball with us,
and that meant a lot to us,
and it gave us the motivation to do it.
This is Juca,
where it all started,
in front of the house,
and now we are in the house.
How much do you like to come here,
how much do you like to sleep in your own bed?
How much do you miss your mom's food?
A lot, a lot.
That's the only thing I miss in America,
family, friends,
the atmosphere here,
the kitchen,
socializing,
that's something I don't have there,
and I can't have there,
and that's why every summer,
whenever I can, I come back,
it's always the best,
and I really enjoy it,
every time I'm here.
I had a chance to hang out recently,
we had one in your grandfather and grandmother's house,
your cousin Nikola's,
and your father gave us some wine,
I heard that's a favorite place for you,
when you come here.
Yes, I can tell you,
we spend almost every evening there,
we get together there,
a few friends from the village,
from Chitluka, Medjugorje,
and that's where we usually hang out,
we eat car,
we drink a little wine,
we hang out,
that's where we enjoy,
that's where something happens every evening,
someone organizes something,
and that's the place where we get together.
Your father makes great wine,
the whole family is working on it,
so tell me,
what's your job when it comes to wine?
At this stage,
I'm just tasting it.
It's a family business,
it's been going on for a long time,
a few generations,
and now mostly my father works on it,
my brothers help,
the rest of the family does the same.
Unfortunately, I'm not there,
when I was younger,
that's where I knew how to be,
to be in the fight,
to help around Sitnica,
and when it was time to step on the gas,
Grozdy,
but lately,
it's really just tasting,
that's where I am,
that's where I help.
That's where you're a ball,
like in basketball, right?
That's where I'm solid.
Everyone has a break,
it passes quickly,
and that's where you arrive.
I've been here for a day,
tomorrow I'm going to Zagreb,
I'm starting training there,
next week,
I have a long summer ahead of me,
but I've set some new goals
for the next season,
and that's the only thing I can do
all summer,
there's the best weather,
I'm a coach there,
so I'm mostly in touch
with Zagreb,
I go to Slavonia,
sometimes to Ženina,
and that's where I've been all summer.
Speaking of last season,
it was a great season,
and for you,
maybe the best NBA season,
when it comes to points,
and the number of jumps,
59-0-0.
The best, for sure,
but I think it's a normal development
of my career,
I expected it all,
everyone's talking about it,
I think it was a great season,
but it's normal for me,
I'm working for it,
I've set those goals,
and it's normal for me,
I came there early,
people expected it from the start,
I don't know what's going to happen,
but I went step by step,
I worked there,
I came to a position
where I have an important role,
where I know who I am,
what I do, what I can do,
and it all worked out,
it turned out great,
there were no injuries,
and it was a great season,
I'm satisfied,
and I hope with a full summer of work
and rest,
that I'll raise it to a higher level.
At the end,
you lost to Denver
in the deciding game,
how did you see that series,
could it have been better,
or maybe you could have lost to Denver?
It could have been better,
they lost 7 games,
you're pretty even with that team,
in the end,
those guys played better and better,
we had our chances in the beginning,
we lost the first game,
we won the whole game,
we had an advantage,
30 seconds to the end,
we went into overtime,
they're a home team,
an experienced team,
they know how to win,
they got the game
we were supposed to get,
and in the 4th game,
Erron Gordon was in for a win,
with the passing of time,
when Jokic missed,
he was perfect for that putback
that Erron Gordon made,
where the ball might have moved a little,
it wouldn't have come to that,
it would have gone into overtime,
and we only had momentum,
that's how it was,
so,
we had our chances in those two games,
if we had won one of those two,
I think we would have won the series,
but,
it's hard to say what would have happened,
if it had happened,
we lost,
everything was fair,
unfortunately,
that's how the NBA works,
small details,
the difference between losing the first round
and winning the title,
so, nothing,
it's a game,
and above all,
your games were great,
did you limit Jokic?
Well, I think I limited him,
he has great stats,
it's hard to stop him,
you have to try to limit him,
you have to try to make it harder for him,
whatever he does,
he scores,
he adds, he jumps,
he runs,
you have to try to make it harder for him,
He's the best player in the world today, so it's hard to stop him.
You have to try to limit everything and make it harder for him.
I think he can do that best in the NBA.
He's one of the best in that.
I think I know how he thinks about certain situations.
I know that he has an advantage in America, with his height, height, weight, physicality.
I know that he can parry that.
It's really hard.
He's a real star, he has a solution for everything.
He just tries to make it a bit harder for him.
It's hard for him to prepare, regardless of all the video analysis.
Is he the hardest player in the NBA, but also in our area?
For sure, for me for sure.
I don't know how it is for others, but for me for sure.
As I said before, he's not...
Everything you learn as a center forward in your career, defense,
it all falls into place when you play against him.
He plays in a way that other centers don't play.
He leads the ball in the pick and roll, and puts the block in the pick and roll.
He can catch, he can roll, he can attack with his face, his back,
he puts the pin down behind him.
It really changes the philosophy.
You have to prepare to guard your back,
and as a center forward, you never guard your back.
They play randomly.
He plays, and so does the Denver team,
so it's hard to scout and watch videos,
because they have solutions for every defense.
It's not easy, you have to be quick in your head,
and adapt quickly.
Speaking of quick thinking, quick reactions,
we need coach Lua Staken.
Steve Wisher is on the doorstep.
He has a great preparation, and I'm sure it affected your season.
Yes, for sure.
I'm in constant contact with him,
and I should have visited Croatia this summer.
He's the best coach I've ever had,
and we have a good relationship.
We talk before and after the game,
we discuss tactics.
He trusts me a lot.
He's quick to think about the game,
he adapts quickly,
he sees something, and he's ready to adapt.
He's a real expert.
I've never worked with a coach like him,
and I have a great relationship with him.
I hope I'll play for him as long as I can.
Considering all your statistics,
and your progress this season,
who do you have chemistry with the most?
Who sees you the most in those pick-and-roll situations?
Harden.
Ever since he came to our team last season,
we immediately created a team.
He has a great chemistry.
His basketball IQ is amazing.
He thinks in a totally different way.
He knows who likes what,
in which position he likes the ball,
what he's going to do,
he sees it all through the video.
He really prepares a lot for those games.
I'm a play-center,
so I have to have that connection.
When you have a player like him,
it's not that hard.
You have to be smart, you have to read the defense,
you have to know how to set the pick,
where to roll, and he'll do most of the work.
I have the biggest chemistry with him.
He's like a leader, a worker.
I've seen a lot of your statements,
where you said that he's an insane worker,
that he comes back after every summer,
as if he never stopped playing.
No, no, he's a player.
When you play with him,
when you see every game, every possession,
how much the other players respect him,
not just him, the stars of other teams,
how much fear they have against him,
when he's in defense, how they don't want to keep him,
when he's in attack.
It's impressive to see,
but he did it all with work.
He didn't enter the NBA as a top-five pick,
the biggest talent, but as a defensive player,
a role-player.
He did it all with his work.
He's an insane worker.
Every day, the same training, the same training.
It's not a crazy rhythm,
he knows what positions he'll get the ball,
what his shots will be, he just works on it.
It's hours and hours of work every day,
non-stop training.
I think it shows.
He won the title twice,
he won the MVP final twice.
There's not much to say about him.
We also have to mention Bogdanović.
I've read a lot about his interviews,
and everyone mentions your role,
how he thanked you, how you received him.
How glad you are that a player
from our speaking area came,
and how they immediately went out on the field
to celebrate.
I didn't even know how much it meant
to play there for nine years.
I've never had anyone from our speaking area
to talk the same language,
to have the same mentality,
to go through the same basketball school,
I think it meant a lot to me.
I think it meant a lot to him.
From the moment we found out about the trade,
we immediately got in touch.
The next day he came to LA,
we went out for a drink,
and we sat next to each other,
we were out on the field all the time,
we hung out at his place,
we would go out for dinners,
we really clicked,
and it showed on the field.
He and I were great on the field,
we had a lot of fun,
it was really nice for us,
the chemistry was great,
but with our relationship,
everyone got excited about us,
and he brought us a lot when he came.
Did the music change in Slačionica?
Well, yes, here and there.
We mostly adapt our music to the Americans,
here and there on the plane,
we can play some of our stuff,
but when we are alone,
we can play more of our music,
and in Slačionica, here and there,
we have our days where we play music,
and we have our days where we listen to American music.
You have been in LA for 9 years,
a life away from the field.
Yes, 9 years went by quickly,
I could never have imagined
that I would live in LA,
and that I would stay there for 9 years.
It rarely happens in the NBA
that someone can stay in one place for a long time,
I am lucky that it happened to me,
life is phenomenal,
the weather is always great,
it's not cold, it's not too hot,
you are next to the ocean,
there are beaches,
you have everything you can wish for,
from the top restaurants,
to everything,
there is everything you can imagine,
it's like the center of the world,
and I am really satisfied,
I would love to spend as long as possible there.
Your wife is your biggest support,
she is also into sports,
for those who don't know,
she loves the most noble animals.
Yes, my wife is with me all the time,
she has been living in the US since I was born,
I don't know how I could live there without her,
she is a great support,
she makes my life easier,
it's hard to do anything in the US,
it's hard to do anything,
when you go on a trip,
you spend 2 weeks there,
and when you come back,
it means a lot that someone is waiting for you at home,
it means a lot to me,
and she is also into cross-country skiing.
Yes, I saw that,
she is doing quite well,
we even raise horses from that sport,
horses in Slavonia,
we support each other in sports,
we are each other's biggest support,
and it works out well for us.
And who cooks at home?
She cooks at home,
in the last 2 years,
we have a cook,
where she cooks a bit more,
according to some program,
there are some details,
that you think are not important,
but they are really important,
and they help you on the field,
you feel a lot better,
and you are healthier,
and when our kitchen is missing,
she cooks for us,
so we find that balance.
You came before the riots,
how much did you follow it?
I followed it, of course,
I ask people what is happening,
unfortunately,
because of those criminals who came,
and who are trying to solve it,
unfortunately, they are the biggest victims,
people who are in LA for 20-30 years,
people who built that life,
unfortunately, they never got the papers,
but they have children and grandchildren,
unfortunately, they separate those people
from their families,
it is a very difficult situation.
How did you survive that terrible fire?
I contacted some of your friends from Chitlka,
and they told me that you haven't been in touch for a few days.
It was terrible what was happening.
It looked apocalyptic.
Yes, those winds were so strong
that they couldn't lift the canoes,
the helicopters,
there was no water,
which is a big problem for the government,
and the administration,
people couldn't put out the houses,
there was no fire extinguisher,
they couldn't put it out,
they just let it burn,
they couldn't do anything,
the winds were unbearable,
it came pretty close to the house,
we didn't even sleep for two nights,
we only watched the news,
how close it was,
we didn't know if we should evacuate.
Thank God,
we didn't burn the house,
but unfortunately, a lot of people had to be evacuated,
they burned their houses,
some of them didn't even burn their houses,
but the winds in those settlements were unbearable.
We mentioned Ivica Bogdana Bogdanović,
how often do you hear about Bojan Bogdanović?
Often, Bojan helped me a lot
when I went to America,
with his advice,
socializing,
we played together,
we are often in touch,
all our players are there,
we are all great, we all hang out,
so we are in touch a lot.
At one point,
one Hercegovacka Petorka could be formed,
Bojan,
Karlo Matković,
Bender,
what is it in our area?
I think that we are born and raised
in a different way
than anywhere else in the world,
we are a bit tougher,
stronger in the head,
we are stronger in everything,
we are stronger in Hercegovac,
I think that is number one,
number two is our physicality,
that we are one of the greatest people in the world,
we are not weak,
that is the first prerequisite
to be able to do something,
we have talent,
I am always sad that there is not so much investment in sports,
there are not so many resources,
because I think there would be a lot more players,
it is a really hard road to that,
to that NBA career,
not only NBA career,
European career, it is a hard road,
we have to overcome that,
but we have some physical prerequisites,
but unfortunately we do not have enough people there,
and resources in sports,
and I think that there would be a lot more players
with top careers than here,
that we have those things.
When we already touched on Bojan,
one for the fans,
and for you as well,
a painful topic, the national team,
what is the problem?
The national team is not lacking,
not in Croatia, not in football,
not in basketball, not in basketball,
some other countries have a problem with NBA players,
with Bojan, Bojan from Garovo,
until his last game, he wanted more success with the national team
than anything else,
you were always available,
Šarić, always, captain from Garovo for Croatia,
what is the problem,
not to reach a top result?
I think that Bojan is our best player
for the national team,
when he played,
when he was at his peak,
we were not ready,
the younger ones,
and when it came to us being ready,
he was also at his peak,
FIBA has a qualifier for every championship in the middle of the season,
where we, NBA players, cannot play.
It is impossible for me now,
this season you have a qualifier in the 11th month,
you have it in the 2nd month,
I am obligated to play in the NBA,
we have a season there,
I have no choice,
I cannot play.
Small countries like Croatia,
with a small pool of those players,
it is not enough,
what you have available,
it is not enough.
It is easier for big countries,
who have a bigger pool of players,
it is easier for them when NBA players do not play,
they have more players to choose from,
and they can qualify,
but unfortunately, we as a small country cannot.
I am 28 years old,
I played one big championship,
and that is it,
and who knows when the next time will be,
this year I did not play in the EuroBasket,
and I am really sorry that I cannot play
after my best season so far,
that I cannot show it on a representative level,
and I cannot represent the country,
I do not know what will change there,
but in the summer it is free,
and only in the 27th month there is a world championship,
and it is not easy,
unfortunately,
unfortunately it is like that,
it is a painful point for me,
and as a child I dream that Croatia will bring a medal
to any championship,
but they cannot bring a medal,
they cannot help when we cannot get to those championships,
and because of those qualifiers,
I cannot play,
I cannot help,
and unfortunately it is like that,
I hope that something will change around that,
but for now it is like that.
On the other hand, the clubs are,
you played in Cibona, Cibona is on its knees,
Zadar, let's say, has continuity,
some results, I think,
I am surprised because others are not on the same level,
Split is trying something with its school,
with a young story,
but there is no way for three players to come out of it,
who could maybe pass through those qualifiers,
and then you come to help them.
I think the league is really weak,
never bad,
and I think the clubs are,
I think Zadar has the most serious club,
and the best results,
but I think that is because
the rest of the league is like that,
and it is really sad to see Cibona in this state,
they are coming out of the league for the first time,
after the league was recorded,
that they will not play, they will play ABA 2,
I don't know what the situation will be, but they came out.
It is really sad to see
where it all came from,
when I was a kid, when I played for Cibona,
already then it went down,
and then they looked at it all badly,
and talked about it,
and then 10 years later, 15 years later,
when you look 100 times up,
and you think how the situation was then,
it was great for us towards this,
so I don't know,
the clubs, our domestic league should be thrown out,
create some players who would carry
those qualifications,
but unfortunately the rest of the league is like that,
and I just hope it will be better.
Last season, we already talked,
what are the expectations for the next season,
and for the future, as far as you are concerned?
Well, I set some goals,
I don't know how real they are,
but that's how my whole life was,
where I set some goals,
where everyone talked about it being impossible,
so I managed to do something,
my goal is to become an all-star,
whether that will be next season,
or until the end of my career,
that would be my biggest individual goal,
I would like to be a defensive player for a year,
first fifth of the season,
I really have a lot of individual goals,
that I set,
I think I'm not far from that,
but I need more work,
and dedication to what I will do this summer,
so I hope that will be the next step in my career,
next season,
if not next, next year,
that's how I set some goals,
and I think I'm really close to that,
that I need a little more,
but of course, that's one goal, to win the NBA title.
You've been in the Clippers since 2019,
if I'm not mistaken,
NBA is unpredictable,
when do you think you'll be in the Clippers?
I have a contract for another three years,
so I hope for a long time,
you never know in the NBA,
it's business first,
and you never know what can happen,
maybe they can be too satisfied with you,
but you never know,
maybe they got an offer for you,
and that's business,
maybe they changed the whole philosophy of the team,
what's their goal,
so you never know,
what can happen,
you can't give up,
I think you're sure,
trade Luka Dončić showed everyone,
that no one can touch him,
players like that never traded,
everything is possible, you never give up,
but it's really nice there,
I enjoy every game,
I'd like to stay as long as I can.
As far as the future is concerned,
we'll look at life after the career,
that's still far away,
but do you plan your life in America,
or maybe Croatia?
I don't plan,
there are a hundred things that can happen,
I still have to play,
I plan to return to Croatia,
but for now,
that's the mentality in my head,
you can change a hundred things,
we'll see,
but as things stand,
I'd like to live in peace.
Zagreb-Slavonija-Hercegovina relationship.
In the end,
let's go back to the beginning of the story,
when you and Zoki watched Zoran Planinča,
as a child you dreamed of being like him,
to come to the NBA,
and now we have a situation,
where Ivan Dodik, a tennis player,
is working in a center,
where he will surely make a new Dodik, a new Čilić.
Will you, after your career,
not necessarily in that way,
but with some of your advice,
direct those children,
so that tomorrow we get a new Bojan Bogdanović,
a new Ivica Zubac, a new Zoran Planinča,
a new Bender, a new Karlo Matković?
I'd love to,
I think that's the only right way,
to give back to others what was given to you.
I had some motivation from someone else,
I had some advice, some role model,
it came from someone else,
and I really think
that it would be fair and correct
to give it back one day,
to help in some way to younger generations
and others,
to be someone's role model or motivation,
to achieve something,
to give some advice,
or to Ivan Dodik, what he's doing,
it's really great,
and I think that's a great sign for the future.
Ivica, thank you for being a guest on our show,
I wish you a lot of luck in your career,
and if God allows it,
see you again in the summer.
Thank you very much, and if God allows it.